Fhv/sdk docs (#121)
encord-team/encord-client-python: docs/source/tutorials/projects.rst

Labels
======

.. note::
    This section is undergoing a review [Tuesday, May 10th 2022].

A label row has this structure:

.. code-block::

    {
        'label_hash': label_hash (uid),
        'data_title': data_title,
        'data_type': data_type,
        'data_units': data_units,
        'object_answers': object_answers,
        'classification_answers': classification_answers,
        'label_status': label_status,
    }

A label row contains a single data unit or a collection of data units together with associated labels, and is specific to a data asset with type video or image group.

1.  A label row with a data asset of type ``video`` contains a single data unit.
2.  A label row with a data asset of type ``img_group`` contains any number of data units.

A data unit can have any number of vector labels (e.g. bounding box, polygon, keypoint) and classifications.

Before you start, make sure that a project client is initialised with the appropriate project ID and API key.

.. code-block::

    from encord.client import EncordClient

    client = EncordClient.initialise("<project_id>", "<project_api_key>")

Getting label rows
------------------

> A project's label row IDs (``<label_hash>`` uid) are found in the project information Python JSON (``client.get_project()``), which also contain information about the ``data_title``, ``data_type`` and ``label_status``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A project's label row IDs (``<label_hash>``: uid) are found in the project information Python JSON (``client.get_project()``), which also contain information about the ``data_title``, ``data_type`` and ``label_status``.
```

Creating a label row
--------------------

If you want to save labels to a unit of data (``video``, ``img_group``) for which a label row (and thus a ``<label_hash>``) does not yet exist, you need to first create a label row associated with the data.

1.  Get the data_hash ``<data_hash>`` that you want to create labels for.
To do this, request all label rows and note the ones that are NOT_LABELLED under 'label_status' (or, where ``<label_hash>`` is None):

.. code-block::

    project = client.get_project()
    print(project.label_rows)

In this example project, we have two videos.
The first is not labeled so you can use its ``<data_hash>`` uid to create a new label row for this video.

.. code-block::

    [
      {
      'label_hash': None,
      'data_hash': '<data_hash>',
      'data_title': 'sample_video_1.mp4',
      'cord_type': 0,
      'data_type': 'VIDEO',
      'label_status': 'NOT_LABELLED'
      },
      {
      'label_hash': '<label_hash>',
      'data_hash': '<data_hash>',
      'data_title': 'sample_video_2.mp4',
      'cord_type': 0,
      'data_type': 'VIDEO',
      'label_status': 'LABELLED'
      }
    ]

> 2.  Create the label row:

Reviewer: This list doesn't render properly. The 2. is indented compared to 1:
<img width="1449" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/92719002/169536581-5c87bf46-1261-4890-91c1-5120a6b3886e.png">

.. code-block::

    data_hash = '<data_hash>'
    my_label_row = client.create_label_row(data_hash)

The label row will have the expected structure and can be updated as needed.
You can retrieve its uid via ``my_label_row.label_hash`` and run other operations such as get and save.

Submitting a label row for review
---------------------------------

> The following method can be used in case you want to submit a label row for review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following method can be used to submit a label row for review.
```

.. include:: ../substitutes.rst

********
Projects
********

We have divided the project tutorials into a couple of subsets.
First, we show general concepts like creating a new project from the |sdk|.
Afterwards, we go more into details with working with, e.g., labels,

> and our integrated automation models and algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and incorporating advanced features such as integrating our automation models and algorithms.
```

Creating a Project
==================

You can create a project via the |sdk|.

> First, you need to create a :xref:`public-private_key_pair` for |company|.

Reviewer: I think we can lose this line

:meth:`create_project() <.EncordUserClient.create_project>` takes three parameters:

> * :meth:`project_title <.EncordUserClient.create_project>` the title of the project as a string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :meth:`project_title <.EncordUserClient.create_project>`: the title of the project as a string
```

> * :meth:`dataset_ids <.EncordUserClient.create_project>` a list of ``<dataset_hash>`` strings for the datasets to add to the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :meth:`dataset_ids <.EncordUserClient.create_project>`: a list of ``<dataset_hash>`` strings for the datasets to add to the project.
```

  For more details on creating datasets, see :ref:`tutorials/datasets:Creating a dataset`.
  This can be set to an empty list

> * :meth:`project_description <.EncordClientProject.create_project>` the description of the project as a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :meth:`project_description <.EncordClientProject.create_project>`: the description of the project as a string.
```

  This parameter is optional

:meth:`create_project() <.EncordUserClient.create_project>` will return the ``<project_hash>`` of the created project.
Whoever calls this method will become the admin of the project.
The following shows the general structure for creating a project.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/projects/creating_a_project.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block::

            "aaaaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-eeee-ffffffffffff"  # the <project_hash>

Copying a project
=================

> You can copy a project over via the |sdk|.

Reviewer: Remove this line as should be clear that all of this stuff is via the sdk

This will create another project with the same ontology and settings [#F1]_.

> You can decide whether this new project also copies over the same users, datasets and models - which aren't copied over by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also decide to copy over the same users, datasets and models (which aren't copied over by default).
```

The :meth:`copy_project() <.EncordClientProject>` method takes the following parameters, all of which are optional:

> * ``copy_datasets`` (default ``False``) when set to ``True``, the datasets from the original project will be copied over, and new tasks will be created from them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``copy_datasets``: when set to ``True``, the datasets from the original project will be copied over, and new tasks will be created from them. Default is ``False`` 
```

> * ``copy_collaborators`` (default ``False``) when set to ``True``, the collaborators from the original project will be copied over with their existing roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``copy_collaborators``:  when set to ``True``, the collaborators from the original project will be copied over with their existing roles. Default is ``False``
```

> * ``copy_models`` (default ``False``) when set to ``True``, the models and their training data from the original project will be copied over

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``copy_models``:  when set to ``True``, the models and their training data from the original project will be copied over. Default is ``False``
```

The parameters above are set to ``False`` by default, meaning you do not need to include any of them if you
do not want to copy that feature into your new project.

:meth:`copy_project <.EncordClientProject.copy_project>` returns the ``<project_hash>`` of the new project.

> The following example showcases an example of copying a project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of copying a project:
```

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/projects/copying_a_project.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            "00000000-bbbb-cccc-eeee-ffffffffffff"  # the <project_hash>

.. rubric:: Footnotes

> .. [#f1] If you do not copy over the collaborators, then the reviewer and label mapping settings won't be copied over.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. [#f1] If you do not copy over the collaborators, then the reviewer and label mapping settings will not be copied over either.
```

Listing existing projects
=========================

> Via the :class:`.EncordUserClient`, you can query and list all the available projects of a given user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can query and list all the available projects of a given user.
```

In the example below, a user authenticates with |company| and then fetches all projects available.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/projects/listing_existing_projects.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block::

            [
                {
                    'project': {
                        'created_at': datetime.datetime(...),
                        'description': 'Example description',
                        'last_edited_at': datetime.datetime(...),
                        'project_hash': '<project_hash>',
                        'title': 'Example title'
                    },
                    'user_role': <ProjectUserRole.ADMIN: 0>
                },
                ...
            ]

.. note::

    :meth:`.EncordUserClient.get_projects` has multiple optional arguments that allow you to query projects with specific characteristics.

    For example, if you only want projects with titles starting with "Validation", you could use ``user_client.get_projects(title_like="Validation%")``.

>     Other keyword arguments such as :meth:`created_before  <.EncordUserClient.get_datasets>` or :meth:`edited_after <.EncordUserClient.get_datasets>` may also be of interest.

Reviewer: Worth pointing them to the reference if they want ot know more

Author: In the built docs, all the mentions of `get_datasets` and arguments are links directly to where the reader would want to go. Should we still explicitly write it out in text you think?

Note how all users get assigned the same role.

.. autolink-concat:: section

.. autolink-preface::
    from encord.utilities.project_user import ProjectUserRole

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/projects/adding_users_to_datasets.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            [
                ProjectUser(
                    user_email="example1@encord.com",
                    user_role=ProjectUserRole.ANNOTATOR,
                    project_hash="<project_hash>"
                ),
                ProjectUser(
                    user_email="example2@encord.com",
                    user_role=ProjectUserRole.ANNOTATOR,
                    project_hash="<project_hash>",
                )
            ]

The return value is a list of :class:`.ProjectUser`.
Each :class:`.ProjectUser` contains information about email, :class:`.ProjectUserRole` and ``<project_hash>``.

API Keys
========

Creating a project API key
--------------------------

Creating a project API key with specific rights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Via the |sdk|, you can create a project API key through :meth:`create_project_api_key() <.EncordUserClient.create_project_api_key>`, which is required to interact with a project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a project API key through :meth:`create_project_api_key() <.EncordUserClient.create_project_api_key>`, which is required to interact with a project using the project client.
```

> The method takes three arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method takes three arguments:
```

> * ``project_id``: is the ``<project_hash>`` of your project, e.g., obtained by :ref:`tutorials/projects:Creating a project` or :ref:`tutorials/projects:Listing existing projects`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``project_id``: the ``<project_hash>`` of your project, obtained - for example - by :ref:`tutorials/projects:Creating a project` or :ref:`tutorials/projects:Listing existing projects`
```

* ``api_key_title``: the title of the API key
* ``scopes``: a list of :class:`.APIKeyScopes` enum values specifying what is accessible with the API key.

The following code example creates an API key with read and write permissions for the project labels.
For the full set of permissions, see :class:`.APIKeyScopes`.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/projects/creating_a_project_api_key.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            # the <project_api_key>
            "0-1aABCDE_aFGcdeHIfJ2KfLMgNO3PQh4RST5UV6W_X"

You use the ``<project_id>`` and ``<project_api_key>`` to obtain a :ref:`authentication:API key authentication` which is specific to the project with the specified permissions.

.. note::
    This capability is available to only the admin of the project.

Creating a maser API key with full rights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is also possible to create or get a master API key with full access to *all* :class:`.APIKeyScopes`.

> The following example show how to get hold of this key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example show how to get hold of a master key:
```

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/projects/creating_a_master_api_key.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            # the <project_api_key>
            "0-1aABCDE_aFGcdeHIfJ2KfLMgNO3PQh4RST5UV6W_X"

Fetching project API keys
-------------------------

> All API keys for an existing project can be obtained via the |sdk|.

Reviewer: Delete this line as can concatenate with following line to make it more succinct.

You need to provide the ``<project_hash>`` which uniquely identifies a project.
Before you can fetch API keys, you need to i) :ref:`create a project <tutorials/projects:Creating a project>` and ii) :ref:`add API keys <tutorials/projects:Creating a project api key>`.

.. autolink-concat:: section

.. autolink-preface::
    from encord.orm.project_api_key import ProjectAPIKey, APIKeyScopes

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/projects/fetching_project_api_keys.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            [
                ProjectAPIKey(
                    api_key="0-1aABCDE_aFGcdeHIfJ2KfLMgNO3PQh4RST5UV6W_X",
                    title="Example title",
                    scopes=[
                        APIKeyScopes.LABEL_READ,
                        APIKeyScopes.LABEL_WRITE,
                    ]
                ),
                # ...
            ]

.. note::
    This capability is available to only the Admin of a project.
..
    fetching_project_api_keys

Data
====

Adding datasets to a project
----------------------------

> You can add existing datasets to a project.

Reviewer: Delete and concatenate with next line

> The ``<dataset_hash>`` for every dataset is needed for this functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the ``<dataset_hash>`` to add existing datasets to a project.
```

> Such hash can, e.g., be found by :ref:`tutorials/datasets:Listing existing datasets`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``<dataset_hash>`` can be found, for example, by :ref:`tutorials/datasets:Listing existing datasets`.
```

This is an example of adding datasets to a project.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/projects/adding_datasets_to_projects.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            True  # False if unsuccessful

.. note::
    You need to be the Admin of the datasets that you want to add to the project.

.. note::
    :meth:`add_datasets() <.EncordClientProject.add_datasets>` throws errors when not able to add datasets to projects.
    See the doc-string documentation for further details.

Removing datasets from a project
--------------------------------

You can remove existing datasets from a project, using the dataset ``<dataset_hash>`` for every dataset which needs to be removed.
To get those hashes, you can follow the :ref:`tutorials/datasets:Listing existing datasets`.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/projects/removing_datasets_from_projects.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            True  # False if unsuccessful

.. note::

>     You need to be the Admin of the datasets that you want to add to the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You need to be an admin of the datasets that you want to delete.
```

.. note::

>     :meth:`remove_datasets() <.EncordClientProject.remove_datasets>` throws errors when not able to remove datasets from projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :meth:`remove_datasets() <.EncordClientProject.remove_datasets>` will throw an error if it is unable to delete a dataset from a project.
```

    See the doc-string documentation for further details.

Ontology
========
A central component of a project is the |ontology|.

> In short, the ontology defines how the label structure of a given project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ontology essentially defines the label structure of a given project.
```

> For a |platform|-related description of the |ontology|, please see :xref:`configure_label_editor_(ontology)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a |platform| description of the |ontology|, please see :xref:`configure_label_editor_(ontology)`.
```

                                  'featureNodeHash': '8161c61a',
                                  'id': '3'}],
             'objects': [{'color': '#D33115',
                          'featureNodeHash': '41d0a534',
                          'id': '1',
                          'name': 'cat',
                          'shape': 'polygon'},
                         {'color': '#FCDC00',
                          'featureNodeHash': 'edf21536',
                          'id': '2',
                          'name': 'bus',
                          'shape': 'polygon'},
                         {'color': '#DBDF00',
                          'featureNodeHash': '2a9ab898',
                          'id': '3',
                          'name': 'airplane',
                          'shape': 'bounding_box'},
                         {'color': '#A4DD00',
                          'featureNodeHash': '56996de1',
                          'id': '4',
                          'name': 'bird',
                          'shape': 'point'}]}

Adding components to a project ontology
---------------------------------------

The ontology has two overall types of components, classifications and objects.

> Classifications relate to whole frames.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Classifications relate to whole frames.
```

> For example, if want to be able to annotate if an image if a of a cat or a dog as a whole, you will add an animal classification with options "Cat" and "Dog."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to be able to annotate if an image is of a cat or a dog as a whole, you will add an animal classification with options "Cat" and "Dog."
```

> Objects, on the other hand, are specific to locations in a frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Objects, on the other hand, are specific to locations in a frame.
```

> For example, if you want to annotate where is the dog in the image, you would first add an object to the ontology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to annotate where the dog is in the image, you would add a dog object to the ontology.
```

> Objects could for example be a bounding box or a polygon indicating where the dog is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Objects are located using a graphical annotation, such as a a bounding box or a polygon, indicating where the dog is.
```

> In the following subsections, we will show you how both scenarios are done.

Reviewer: I think you can delete this line

Adding a classification to a project ontology
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Here, we are in the "cat vs. dog" scenario from above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we are in the "cat vs. dog" scenario from above.
```

> Adding classifications for cats and dogs to an ontology via the |sdk| is done as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Classifications for cats and dogs are added to an ontology using the :meth:`add_classification() <.EncordClientProject.add_classification>` method.
```

The :meth:`add_classification() <.EncordClientProject.add_classification>` method takes the following parameters:

> * ``name`` the description of the classification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``name``: the description of the classification
```

> * ``classification_type`` a value from the :class:`.ClassificationType` enum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``classification_type``: a value from the :class:`.ClassificationType` enum.
```

> * ``required`` - a boolean value specifying whether the classification is mandatory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``required``: a boolean value specifying whether the classification is mandatory
```

> * ``options`` - a list of options that the annotator can choose from in case of :class:`CHECKLIST <.ClassificationType>`/:class:`RADIO <.ClassificationType>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``options``: a list of options that the annotator can choose from in case of :class:`CHECKLIST <.ClassificationType>`/:class:`RADIO <.ClassificationType>`.
```

  Omit this parameter if adding a ``TEXT`` classification.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/projects/adding_classifications_to_a_project_ontology.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            True  # False if unsuccessful

> Adding an object to a project ontology

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding an object to an ontology
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Here, we are in the "where is the dog" scenario from above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we are in the "where is the dog" scenario.
```

> Adding objects to an existing ontology via the |sdk| is demonstrated in the following example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Objects are added to to an existing ontology using the :meth:`add_object() <.EncordClientProject.add_object>` method.

```

The :meth:`add_object() <.EncordClientProject.add_object>` method takes the following parameters:

> * ``name`` the name of the object as a string,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``name``: the description of the object as a string
```

> * ``shape`` the shape of the object, which is an :class:`.ObjectShape` enum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``shape``: the shape of the object used to annotate it of type :class:`.ObjectShape` enum
```

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Code

        .. literalinclude:: /code_examples/tutorials/projects/adding_objects_to_a_project_ontology.py
            :language: python

    .. tab:: Example output

        .. code-block:: python

            True  # False if unsuccessful

Labels
======

.. note::

>     This section is undergoing a reconstruction [Tuesday, May 10th 2022].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This section is undergoing a rewrite [Tuesday, May 10th 2022].
```

> A label row has the attributes ``<label_hash>`` uid, ``data_title``, ``data_type``, ``data_units``, and ``label_status``.

Reviewer: The description here and the json below don't match. There is no mention of object or classification answers.\

Also, to make it more succinct, I would just say: A label row has the following attributes:' as the code_block has enough info to explain

.. code-block::

    {
        'label_hash': label_hash (uid),
        'data_title': data_title,
        'data_type': data_type,
        'data_units': data_units,
        'object_answers': object_answers,
        'classification_answers': classification_answers,
        'label_status': label_status,
    }

> A label row contains a data unit or a collection of data units and associated labels, and is specific to a data asset with type video or image group.

Reviewer: What is a dat unit?

> A label row contains a data unit or a collection of data units and associated labels, and is specific to a data asset with type video or image group.

Reviewer: What is a data unit?

> A label row contains a data unit or a collection of data units and associated labels, and is specific to a data asset with type video or image group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A label row contains a single data point or a collection of data points together with associated labels, and is specific to a data asset with type video or image group.
```

> 1.  A label row with a data asset of type ``video`` contains a single data unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  A label row with a data asset of type ``video`` contains a single data point
```

Author: the term data unit is used all over the place in keys for accessing the data so I think that it would be more clear to stick with that?

> 2.  A label row with a data asset of type ``img_group`` contains any number of data units.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  A label row with a data asset of type ``img_group`` contains as many data points as there are images in that group
```

> A data unit can have any number of vector labels (e.g. bounding box, polygon, keypoint) and classifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A data point can have any number of vector labels (e.g. bounding box, polygon, keypoint) and classifications.
```

Before you start, make sure that a project client is initialised with the appropriate project ID and API key.

.. code-block::

    from encord.client import EncordClient

    client = EncordClient.initialise("<project_id>", "<project_api_key>")

Getting label rows
------------------

> Project label row IDs (``<label_hash>`` uid) are found in the project information Python JSON (``client.get_project()``), which also contain information about the data title (``data_title``), data type (``data_type``) and label status (``label_status``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A project's label row IDs (``<label_hash>`` uid) are found in the project information Python JSON (``client.get_project()``), which also contain information about the ``data_title``, ``data_type`` and ``label_status``.
```

.. code-block::

    {
        ...,
        'label_rows': [{
            'label_hash': 'sample_label_uid',
            'data_hash': 'sample_data_uid',
            'dataset_hash': 'sample_dataset_uid',
            'dataset_title': 'sample_dataset_title',
            'data_title': 'sample_data.mp4',
            'data_type': 'VIDEO',
            'label_status': 'LABELLED',
        }, {
            'label_hash': ...,
        }]
    }

Use the client to fetch individual label objects.

.. code-block::

    label = client.get_label_row('sample_label_uid')

> Use the ``project.get_labels_list()`` method to get a list each label ID (``<label_hash>`` uid) in a project and conveniently fetch all project labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the ``project.get_labels_list()`` method to get a list of label IDs (``<label_hash>``: uuid) in a project and fetch all project labels.
```

.. code-block::

    project = client.get_project()

    label_rows = []
    for label_hash in project.get_labels_list():
        lb = client.get_label_row(label_hash)
        label_rows.append(lb)

> The label row object contains data units with signed URL's (``data_link``) to the labeled data asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The label row object contains data points with signed URLs (``data_link``: string) to the labeled data asset.
```

Author: I think that data unit is used to often that we cannot start calling it data points :-)

.. code-block::

    {
        'label_hash': 'sample_label_uid',
        'data_hash': 'sample_data_uid',
        'data_type': 'sample_data_type',
        'data_units': {
            ...,
            'sample_data_hash': {
                'data_hash': 'sample_data_hash',
                'data_title': 'sample_data_title',
                'data_link': 'sample_data_link',
                'data_type': 'sample_data_type',
                'data_fps': 'sample_dat_fps' # For video
                'data_sequence': 'sample_sequence_number',
                'labels': {
                    ...
                },
            },
        },
        'object_answers': {
            ...
        },
        'classification_answers': {
            ...
        }
    }

> The objects and classifications answer dictionaries contain classification 'answers' (i.e. attributes that describe the object or classification).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The objects and classifications answer dictionaries contain 'answers', attributes that describe the object or classification.
```

This is to avoid storing the information at every frame in the label dictionary.

For the ``video`` data type, the ``labels`` dictionary contains a series of frames.

.. code-block::

    {
        'frame': {
            'objects': {
                [{object 1}, {object 2}, ...]
            }
            'classifications': {
                [{classification 1}, {classification 2}, ...]
            }
        },
        ...
    }

> For the ``img_group`` data type, the ``objects`` and ``classifications`` are spread in ``labels``.

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence I'm afraid

Author: Neither do I. This is legacy content from the old docs.

Reviewer: We need to clarify then. Do you know what this means? @denis-cord do you know what this means?

Author: This whole section about label (as well as the following) needs a complete brush up. For example, I don't like using uid's for generalizing `project_hash`, `dataset_hash`, `data_hash`, etc. The abstraction just makes everything much more unclear. So no need to investigate a lot of time in this now. I think we can just remove the sentence for now.

Reviewer: ok

Each frame entry in the labels dictionary must have an ``objects`` and ``classifications`` key with a list of objects and classifications.
For videos, frames must be in a linearly ordered set.

.. code-block::

    {
        'frame': {
            'objects': [{...}],
            'classifications': [{...}],
        },
    }

The ``object answers`` dictionary is in the form:

.. code-block::

    {
        'objectHash': {
            'objectHash': objectHash,
            'classifications': [{answer 1}, {answer 2}, ...]
        },
        ...
    }

The ``classification answers`` dictionary is in the form:

.. code-block::

    {
        'classificationHash': {
            'classificationHash': classificationHash,
            'classifications': [{answer 1}, {answer 2}, ...]
        },
        ...
    }

Saving label rows
-----------------

> Labels are saved to their label row ID (``<label_hash>`` uid) from a label row instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Labels are saved to their label row ID (``<label_hash>``: uid) from a label row instance.
```

> In case you want to save labels for the data which was not labeled before, follow the steps under "Creating label rows" below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to save labels for currently unlabeled data, follow the steps below under "Creating label rows".
```

.. code-block::

    client.save_label_row('sample_label_uid', sample_label)

Label rows have to be saved in the same format as fetched.
The function ``construct_answer_dictionaries`` helps construct answer dictionaries for all objects and classifications in the label row if they do not exist, returning a label row object with updated object and classification answer dictionaries.

First, import the label_utilities library.

.. code-block::

    from encord.utilities import label_utilities

> Then, save labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then save the labels.
```

.. code-block::

    sample_label = client.get_label_row('sample_label_uid')

> updated_label = label_utilities.construct_answer_dictionaries(sample_label)

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be in the code block

client.save_label_row('sample_label_uid', updated_label)

Creating a label row
--------------------

If you want to save labels to a unit of data (``video``, ``img_group``) for which a label row (and thus a ``<label_hash>`` uid) does not exist yet, you need to create a label row associated with the data.

> 1.  Get the data_hash (``<data_hash>`` uid) that you want to create labels for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Get the ``<data_hash>`` that you want to create labels for
```

> For this, request all label rows and note the ones that are NOT_LABELLED under 'label_status' (or, where ``<label_hash>`` is None):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, request all label rows and note the ones that are NOT_LABELLED under 'label_status' (or, where ``<label_hash>`` is None):
```

.. code-block::

    project = client.get_project()
    print(project.label_rows)

> In an example project, we have two videos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example project, we have two videos.
```

> The first was not labeled, and therefore, you should use its ``<data_hash>`` uid to create a new label row for this video.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first is not labeled so you can use its ``<data_hash>`` uid to create a new label row for this video.
```

.. code-block::

    [
      {
      'label_hash': None,
      'data_hash': '<data_hash>',
      'data_title': 'sample_video_1.mp4',
      'cord_type': 0,
      'data_type': 'VIDEO',
      'label_status': 'NOT_LABELLED'
      },
      {
      'label_hash': '<label_hash>',
      'data_hash': '<data_hash>',
      'data_title': 'sample_video_2.mp4',
      'cord_type': 0,
      'data_type': 'VIDEO',
      'label_status': 'LABELLED'
      }
    ]

2.  Create the label row:

.. code-block::

    data_hash = '<data_hash>'
    my_label_row = client.create_label_row(data_hash)

> The label row will have the familiar structure, and can be updated as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The label row will have the expected structure and can be updated as needed.
```

You can retrieve its uid via ``my_label_row.label_hash`` and run other operations such as get and save.

Submitting a label row for review
---------------------------------

The following method can be used in case you want to submit a label row for review.

.. code-block::

    client.submit_label_row_for_review('sample_label_uid')

The above method will submit the annotation task corresponding to the label row and create the review tasks corresponding to it based on the sampling rate in the project settings.

Getting data rows
-----------------

> A data row unit contains a data unit, or a collection of data units, and has attributes ``<data_hash>`` uid, ``video``, and ``images``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A data row contains a data unit, or a collection of data units, and has attributes ``<data_hash>``, ``video``, and ``images``.
```

.. code-block::

    {
        'data_hash': data_hash (uid),
        'video': video,
        'images': images,
    }

> 1.  A data row with a data asset of type ``video`` contains a single data unit in the form of a video.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  A data row with a data asset of type ``video`` contains a single data unit in the form of a video
```

2.  A data row with a data asset of type ``img_group`` contains any number of data units in the form of images.

Before you start, make sure that a project client is initialised with the appropriate project ID and API key.

.. code-block::

    data_row = client.get_data('sample_data_uid', generate_signed_url=True)

You can optionally return signed URLs for timed public access to that resource (default is False).

Reviewing label logs
--------------------

You can query information about a project's labels by using the ``get_label_logs`` method of a client initialised for that project.
You will need an API key with the``label_logs.read`` permission.

> The ``get_label_logs`` takes a number of optional parameters to narrow down the retrieved logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``get_label_logs`` method takes a number of optional parameters to narrow down the retrieved logs:
```

.. code-block::

    from encord.client import EncordClient

    client = EncordClient.initialise("<project_id>", "<project_api_key>")
    logs = client.get_label_logs(user_hash=<user_hash>)
    for log in logs:
        print(log)

.. code-block::

    def get_label_logs(
        self,
        user_hash: str = None,
        data_hash: str = None,
        from_unix_seconds: int = None,
        to_unix_seconds: int = None
        )
        -> List[LabelLog]

Models
======

.. note::

>     This section is undergoing a reconstruction [Tuesday, May 10th 2022].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This section is undergoing a review [Tuesday, May 10th 2022].
```

> The |sdk| allows you to interact with the Encord model features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |sdk| allows you to interact with Encord's advanced model features.
```

Our model library includes state-of-the-art classification, object detection, segmentation, and pose estimation models.

Creating a model row
--------------------

The easiest way to get started with creating a model row is to navigate to the 'models' tab in your project. Create a model and set parameters accordingly.

.. figure:: /images/python_sdk_model_create.png

    Getting model API details.

> Click on the 'Model API details' button to toggle a code snippet with create model row API details when you are happy with your selected parameters.

Reviewer: If we want to be consistent with the. web-app docs, buttons are in italics

.. code-block::

    from encord.client import EncordClient
    from encord.constants.model import *

    # Initialize project client
    client = EncordClient.initialise(
      "<project_id>",  # Project ID
      "<project_api_key>"  # API key
    )

    model_row_uid = client.create_model_row(
                                title='Sample title',
                                description='Sample description',  # Optional
                                features=['feature_uid_1', 'feature_uid_2', ...], #  List of feature feature uid's (hashes) to be included in the model.
                                model=FASTER_RCNN
                            )
    print(model_row_uid)

The following models are available, and are all imported using ``from encord.constants.model import *``.

.. code-block::

    # Classification
    FAST_AI = "fast_ai"
    RESNET18 = "resnet18"
    RESNET34 = "resnet34"
    RESNET50 = "resnet50"
    RESNET101 = "resnet101"
    RESNET152 = "resnet152"
    VGG16 = "vgg16"
    VGG19 = "vgg19"

    # Object detection
    YOLOV5 = "yolov5"
    FASTER_RCNN = "faster_rcnn"

    # Instance segmentation
    MASK_RCNN = "mask_rcnn"

Training
--------

> Navigate to the 'models' tab in your project to get started with model training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started with model training, navigate to the 'models' tab in your project on the |platform|.
```

> Start by creating a model row using the Python SDK or by following the :xref:`create_model_guidelines`.

Author: Removed this sdk thing here. It doesn't make sense.

> You can also use an existing model by clicking on the 'train' button.

Reviewer: To match the web app docs (seeing as there are web app screenshots here) probably should have the train button in italic rather than in quotes

The following pre-trained weights are available for training, and are all imported using ``from encord.constants.model_weights import *``.

.. code-block::

    # Fast AI (classification)
    fast_ai

    # Yolo V5 (object detection)
    yolov5x
    yolov5s

    # Faster RCNN (object detection)
    faster_rcnn_R_50_C4_1x
    faster_rcnn_R_50_DC5_1x
    faster_rcnn_R_50_FPN_1x
    faster_rcnn_R_50_C4_3x
    faster_rcnn_R_50_DC5_3x
    faster_rcnn_R_50_FPN_3x
    faster_rcnn_R_101_C4_3x
    faster_rcnn_R_101_DC5_3x
    faster_rcnn_R_101_FPN_3x
    faster_rcnn_X_101_32x8d_FPN_3x

    # Mask RCNN (instance segmentation)
    mask_rcnn_X_101_32x8d_FPN_3x
    mask_rcnn_R_50_C4_1x
    mask_rcnn_R_50_C4_3x
    mask_rcnn_R_101_FPN_3x

Inference
---------

To get started with model inference, make sure you have created a project API key with ``model.inference`` added to access scopes.
The easiest way to get started with model inference is to navigate to the 'models' tab in your project.

Open the model training log for the model you would like to use for inference.

.. figure:: /images/python_sdk_model_inference.png

    API details for running inference.

> Click the 'inference API details' icon next to the download button to toggle a code snippet with model inference details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the 'Inference API details' icon next to the download button to toggle a code snippet with model inference details.
```

The default confidence threshold is set to ``0.6``, the default IoU threshold is set to ``0.3`` and the default value for the polygon coarseness is set to ``0.005``.

.. code-block::

    inference_result = client.model_inference(
      "<model_iteration_id>",  # Model iteration ID
      data_hashes=['video1_data_hash', 'video2_data_hash'],  # List of data_hash values for videos/image groups
      detection_frame_range=[0, 100],  # Run detection on frames 0 to 100
      conf_thresh=0.6,  # Set confidence threshold to 0.6
      iou_thresh=0.3,  # Set IoU threshold to 0.3
      rdp_thresh=0.005,  # Set polygon coarseness to 0.005
    )
    print(inference_result)

The model inference API also accepts a list of locally stored images to run inference on.
In case of locally stored images only JPEG and PNG file types are supported for running inference.

.. code-block::

    inference_result = client.model_inference(
      "<model_iteration_id>",  # Model iteration ID
      file_paths=['path/to/file/1.jpg', 'path/to/file/2.jpg'],  # Local file paths to images
      detection_frame_range=[1,1],
    )
    print(inference_result)

> For running inference on locally stored videos, only MP4 and WebM video types are supported.

Reviewer: I would put this in a note

.. code-block::

    inference_result = client.model_inference(
      "<model_iteration_id>",  # Model iteration ID
      file_paths=['path/to/file/1.mp4', 'path/to/file/2.mp4'],  # Local file paths to videos
      detection_frame_range=[0, 100],  # Run detection on frames 0 to 100
    )
    print(inference_result)

The model inference API also accepts a list of base64 encoded strings.

.. code-block::

    inference_result = client.model_inference(
      "<model_iteration_id>",  # Model iteration ID
      base64_strings=[base64_str_1, base_64_str_2],  # Base 64 encoded strings of images/videos
      detection_frame_range=[1,1],
    )
    print(inference_result)

> Limits on the input values

Reviewer: This bullet list is not rendering properly.

Replace - with : to match our general style in other docs please.

* ``conf_thresh`` - the value of this parameter should be between 0 and 1.
* ``iou_thresh`` - the value of this parameter should be between 0 and 1.
* ``rdp_thresh`` - the value for this paramater should be between 0 and 0.01.
* ``data_hashes`` - the cumulative size of the videos/image groups specified should be less than or equal to 1 GB, otherwise a FileSizeNotSupportedError would be thrown.
* ``detection_frame_range`` - the maximum difference between the 2 frame range values can be 1000, otherwise a DetectionRangeInvalidError would be thrown.

Algorithms
==========

.. note::
    This section is undergoing a reconstruction [Tuesday, May 10th 2022].

The Python SDK allows you to interact with the Encord algorithmic automation features.

> Our library includes sampling, augmentation, transformation, and labeling algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our library includes sampling, augmentation, transformation and labeling algorithms.
```

To get started with our algorithmic automation features, make you have created an API key with ``algo.library`` added to access scopes and initialised a project client with the appropriate project ID and API key.

.. code-block::

    from encord.client import EncordClient
    client = EncordClient.initialise("<resource_id>", "<resource_api_key>")

Object interpolation
--------------------

> The client object interpolator allows you to run interpolation algorithms on project labels (requires an editor ontology).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client object interpolator allows you to run interpolation algorithms on project labels (requires an project ontology).
```

> Interpolation is supported for the ontological types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interpolation is supported for the following annotation types:
```

1.  Bounding box
2.  Polygon
3.  Keypoint

Use the ``client.object_interpolation(key_frames, objects_to_interpolate)`` method to run object interpolation.

Key frames (``key_frames``) can be obtained from a label row for the ``video`` data type.

> The objects to interpolate between key frames is a list object IDs (``objectHash`` uid) contained within the ``labels`` dictionary.

Reviewer: Don't understand this sentence

An object is interpolated between the key frames where it is present, and is based on its object ID.

The interpolation algorithm can be run on multiple objects with different ontological objects at the same time (i.e. you can run interpolation on bounding box, polygon, and keypoint, using the same function call) on any number of key frames.

.. code-block::

    # Fetch label row
    sample_label = client.get_label_row('sample_label_uid')

    # Prepare interpolation
    key_frames = sample_label['data_units']['sample_data_hash']['labels']
    objects_to_interpolate = ['sample_object_uid']

    # Run interpolation
    interpolation_result = client.object_interpolation(key_frames, objects_to_interpolate)
    print(interpolation_result)

The interpolation algorithm can also be run from sample key frames kept locally, with ``key_frames`` passed in a simple JSON structure.

> All that is required is a feature ID (``featureHash`` uid) and object ID (``objectHash`` uid) for each object in your set of key frames.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All that is required is a feature ID (``featureHash``: uid) and object ID (``objectHash``: uid) for each object in your set of key frames.
```

                            "y": y1,
                        },
                        "1": {
                            "x": x2,
                            "y": y2,
                        },
                        "2" {
                            "x": x3,
                            "y": y3,
                        },
                        ...,
                    }
                },
                {
                    ...
                }
            ]
        },
        "frame": {
            ...,
        }
    }

Other Resources
===============

.. note::
    This section is undergoing a reconstruction [Monday, May 9th 2022].

CVAT Integration
----------------

If you are currently using :xref:`cvat` for image and video annotations, we have made it easy to import your entire project or single tasks to |company|.
This will create the ontology and import all labels and classifications.

Exporting Your CVAT Work
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You can either export an entire project or an individual task.
Keep in mind that every new export will create an entirely new project.

Exporting from the CVAT UI
""""""""""""""""""""""""""

For project exports:

> .. figure:: /images/cvat_project_export.png

Reviewer: I think some of these screenshots are not loading/rendering properly

Author: Good catch. Thought I checked this. Will fix.

    Export Project.

Or for task exports:
.. figure:: /images/cvat_task_export.png

    Export Task.

Then in the popup, please ensure that images are saved too:

.. figure:: /images/cvat_project_export_popup.png

    Export Project.

.. note::
    Choose the "CVAT for images 1.1" export format for images and the "CVAT for video 1.1" export format for videos.

    If your project contains videos and images, you can only choose the "CVAT for images 1.1" in which case you will loose interpolation information across video frames.

> Once this is downloaded, you can unzip the file to create the directory which contains all your images/videos and also the `annotations.xml` file which contains your CVAT ontology, CVAT labels, and CVAT tags (which are the equivalent of Encord Classifications for entire images/frames).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once this is downloaded, you can unzip the file to create a directory which contains all your images/videos, together with an `annotations.xml` file which contains your CVAT ontology, CVAT labels, and CVAT tags (which are the equivalent of Encord Classifications for entire images/frames).
```

> Importing with our Python SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importing with the |sdk|
```
